From that treasured necklace to your favourite rings, discover our complete guide to cleaning your Pandora jewellery. Here we answer the most common questions about caring for your jewellery pieces.

Why is my jewellery tarnishing?
Are you worried about your jewellery tarnishing? When silver is exposed to air over a longer period of time, it's likely to oxidise and turn a darker colour. Don’t worry, though. This is absolutely normal, and it doesn’t mean you aren’t looking after your jewellery properly.



To restore its original look, you can use an at-home natural jewellery cleaner set. The Pandora Care Kit is specially designed to make your favourite pieces bright and shiny again. Simply place your ring, bracelet, necklace, earrings or charm in the jewellery cleaning solution for a few minutes. After you take it out, use the small brush to loosen any dirt.



Next, dry and buff it with the white side of the polishing cloth. After that, your silver jewellery pieces will look as good as new again. Whether you’re looking for a silver jewellery cleaner or a gold jewellery cleaner, our Care Kit will help maintain all types of jewellery.

Jewellery Care Kit
Jewellery Care Kit
A$35.00
Pink Small Jewellery Box
Pink Small Jewellery Box
A$39.00
Pandora Double-sided Polishing Cloth
Pandora Double-sided Polishing Cloth
A$9.00
Pandora Clasp Opener
Pandora Clasp Opener
A$15.00
How to clean and maintain Pandora jewellery
Polish your Pandora jewellery frequently with the Care Kit’s soft polishing cloth to maintain its shine. You can use this to clean Pandora rings, bracelets, charms, necklaces, pendants and earrings. Whether you’re looking for a sterling silver jewellery cleaner or a gold jewellery cleaner, our Care Kit will help maintain all Pandora materials and stones. 



Remember not to use any harsh abrasives when cleaning your Pandora jewellery. Avoid using ultrasonic cleaners, which may cause damage. A polishing cloth cannot remove any scratches, so make sure to handle your jewellery with care. Be careful not to knock it against hard surfaces as this could damage it.

Cleaning silver jewellery
Buff your sterling silver pieces with the white side of the polishing cloth – it's infused with a gentle cleaning solution that’s specifically formulated for silver metal.

Cleaning gold jewellery
Wondering how to go about cleaning gold jewellery? For plated metals, such as 14k rose gold-plated and 14k gold-plated, simply use the untreated pink side of the polishing cloth. Gently clean your jewellery to restore its dazzling shine.

Cleaning gemstones
Immerse gemstones in the liquid cleaning solution and polish them using the cloth. When using Pandora’s mild cleaning solution, leave jewellery to soak for approximately two minutes and then follow the instructions for polishing.

Our silver picks
How often should I clean my jewellery?
If you wear your jewellery every day, it’s a good idea to clean it using the Care Kit every two weeks.



We recommend having your Pandora jewellery pieces checked by a jeweller once a year. If you’re looking for where to get rings cleaned or where to get jewellery cleaned, your local Pandora store is the place to go for professional cleaning and to check stone settings.

How to care for your jewellery
Store jewellery in a jewellery box



Jewellery boxes are great for keeping different pieces of jewellery separate, which prevents them from damaging one another. They also maintain jewellery by keeping it dust-free.



Store jewellery in pouches



Another great way to maintain your jewellery pieces is to store them in robust pouches, which will keep them safe and secure and reduce the risk of any damage.



Remove jewellery before showering



Make sure to remove your jewellery before showering, swimming or sleeping to prevent damage.



Avoid high temperatures



Prolonged exposure to hot weather can lead to discolouration of your jewellery. Make sure to remove it before heading to the beach, for example.



For more advice on how to keep your Pandora jewellery looking as good as new, watch our video below.